Science is primarly based on data gathering, experiments and pattern recognition. Scinetist use the data gathered in nature and then they start to search patterns in the data they collected. They would then form ideas, conclusions or theories out of the patterns they found in the data. Then they construct an experminet. A set of specfic events that happens in time, with predicted outcome. The predicted outcome of the experiment is then used to interpret the theory as true or false. If the theory is true it is considerd fact, and the scientes call the pattern found in the data they gather, a Law of Nature. 

imagine a cave, thousnds of years in the past, where a familly of neandretals are slowly waving them self tp sleap after a meal. Most of the older ones are allread a sleep, as the sun is gone but the evning night is still orange. As the night fals the younger ones will muster in the entrance of the cave, "uuuing" and "aaaing" at each other. Soon the females would start screetching for the young ones to come inside. The night is all but dark, temperature is dropping fast, its distant and cruel planet. For us modern humas an alien planet. But still some the older youns linger at the caverns, disgarding the motherss call. The young males, two of them 3 at them most. Gaze at the dark, teasing each other. Pusinhs themselcs twords the dark of the night. They look at the night listening, smelling, eyes server them ill. And they know there are things out there, deadly things, that can snap them in two. Beast tall 6, 10, 15 meters. With razor blades in their mouths, better eyes, better smell. And so the retreat to where there is fire, where they are kings among the beast. Scared snesles these teneagers scutter back to the cave, to saftey. But still on or two of them linger in slience on the entrance, in silence. Not smelling, listnening, ther save, and they gaze into the night, and sudnelly a new feeling, a primitive thought happens in on of their primitove brains. Suddenll there is an urge to go in to the night and to se wahti is there. Young nenadratal is having images in his head of places he has never seen. He is using hes primtive imaganiton for the first time, and he WONDERS!

He is distrubet by aggitated female, with sleep broken from his dream his rushed bak ti heis sleeping place. But sleep doesnt come, and image is hard inprinted in his head. After everyone is a sleep, he stands and goes back to the entrance of the cave. The fire is tingling in the backgruond, and night is still dark, no moon. A dangeorus dark, all the big ones can see in the dark, here him mile away, wait. He knows, this young nenadratal, he has seen it. Since he was bron five died from the beasts. Oh heknows and he fears, yet the image of this distant landscape burns in the mind. He needs to se if its out there, in his mind a curiosity is born. His mind is interuped by a sound in the bushes, he is petrified at first, but fo a moment this bnew filing pops back yo hes had, and he needs to know what made the sound, cause now there is an idea in his head, he thinks he knows what it is. And he just needs to know. Finally curiosity wins, he rushes in the bush, ratteling, and within seconds a small rodent is in his hands, dead in a second. 

Against every instinct he jumped.